You
are
Very likely to be one of not the person that creates agi
One up one up and even then like we're on a team of many there will be many teams
But several teams small number of people nevertheless relative
I do think it's strange that it's maybe a few tens of thousands of people in the world a few thousands people in the world
But there will be a room
With a few folks who are like, holy shit that happens more often than you would think now. I understand I understand this
I understand this. Yes, there will be more such rooms, which is a beautiful
Place to be in the world, uh, terrifying but mostly beautiful. Uh, so that might make you and a handful of folks
Uh the most powerful humans on earth
Do you worry that power might corrupt you?
for sure, um, look I don't
I think you want
Decisions about this technology and certainly decisions about
Who is running this technology to become increasingly democratic over time? We haven't figured out quite how to do this. Um,
but
We part of the reason for deploying like this is to get the world to have time to adapt
And to reflect and to think about this to pass regulation for institutions to come up with new norms
For the people working on it together. Like that is a huge part of why we deploy
Even though many of the ai safety people you referenced earlier think it's really bad even they acknowledge that this is like of some benefit
um
But I think any version of one person is in control
Of this is really bad
So trying to distribute the power
I don't have and I don't want like any like super voting power or any special like that
You know, i'm not like control of the board or anything like that of open. I
I
But aji if created has a lot of power
How do you think we're doing like honest? How do you think we're doing so far?
Like how do you think our decisions are like do you think we're making things not better worse? What can we do better?
Well the things I really like because I know a lot of folks at open ai
The thing I really like is the transparency everything you're saying which is like failing publicly
writing papers
releasing different kinds of
Information about the safety concerns involved
And doing it out in the open
Is great
Because especially in contrast to some other companies that are not doing that. They're being more closed
That said you could be more open. Do you think we should open source gpt4?
My personal opinion because I know people at open ai is no
What is knowing the people at open ai have to do with it because I know they're good people
I know a lot of people I know they're good human beings
Um from a perspective of people that don't know the human beings there's a concern of the super powerful technology in the hands of a few
That's closed. It's closed in some sense, but we give more access to it. Yeah then and like if this had just been google's game
I feel it's very unlikely that anyone would have put this api out. There's pr risk with it
Yeah, like I get personal threats because of it all the time. I think most companies wouldn't have done this
so maybe we didn't go as open as people wanted but like
We've distributed it pretty broadly
You personally know open ai as a culture is not so like nervous about uh pr risk and all that kind of stuff
You're more nervous about the risk of the actual technology and you and you reveal that so I you know
The nervousness that people have is because it's such early days of the technology is that you will close off over time
Because more and more powerful my nervousness is you get attacked so much by fear
Mongering clickbait journalism. You're like why the hell do I need to deal with this?
I think the clickbait journalism bothers you more than it bothers me
No, i'm a third person bothered like I appreciate that like I feel all right about it of all the things I lose sleep over
It's not high on the list because it's important. There's a handful of companies a handful of folks that are really pushing this forward
They're amazing folks. I don't want them to become cynical about
The rest of the rest of the world. I think people at open.ai feel the weight of responsibility of what we're doing
and yeah, it would be nice if like
You know journalists were nicer to us and twitter trolls gave us more benefit of the doubt
but like
I think we have a lot of resolve in what we're doing and why?
And the importance of it
But I really would love and I ask this like of a lot of people not just if cameras rolling like any feedback you've got
For how we can be doing better. We're in uncharted waters here
Talking to smart people is how we figure out what to do better
How do you take feedback? Do you take feedback from twitter also?
Do you because there's the sea the water my twitter is unreadable. Yeah
So sometimes I do I can like take a sample a cup cup out of the waterfall
Um, but I mostly take it from conversations like this
