Uh speaking of feedback somebody, you know, well you work together closely
On some of the ideas behind open.ai is elon musk you have agreed on a lot of things you've disagreed on some things
What have been some interesting things you've agreed and disagreed on?
speaking of
a fun debate on twitter
I think we agree on the
magnitude of the downside of agi and the need to get
Not only safety, right but get to a world where people are much better off
Because agi exists than if agi had never been built
Yeah
What do you disagree on
Elon is obviously attacking us some on twitter right now on a few different vectors and I have
empathy because I believe he is
Understandably, so really stressed about agi safety
I'm sure there are some other motivations going on too, but that's definitely one of them
um
I saw this video of elon
a
Long time ago talking about spacex. Maybe he's on some news show
and
A lot of early pioneers in space were really bashing
SpaceX and maybe elon too and
He was visibly very hurt by that and said
You know, those guys are heroes of mine and I sucks and I wish they would see how hard we're trying
Um, I definitely grew up with elon as a hero of mine. Um
You know despite him being a jerk on twitter or whatever i'm happy he exists in the world, but I wish he would
Do more to look at the hard work we're doing to get this stuff right a little bit more love
What do you admire in the name of love about eel musk? I mean so much right like he has
He has driven the world forward in important ways, I think we will get to
Electric vehicles much faster than we would have if he didn't exist
I think we'll get to space much faster than we would have if he didn't exist
and
as a sort of like
Citizen of the world i'm very appreciative of that
also, like
Being a jerk on twitter aside in many instances. He's like a very funny and warm guy
And uh some of the jerk on twitter thing
Um, uh as a fan of humanity laid out in its full complexity and beauty. I enjoy the tension of ideas expressed
so
Uh, you know, I earlier said that I admire how transparent you are
But I like how the battles are happening before our eyes as opposed to everybody closing off inside boardrooms. It's all laid out
Yeah, you know, maybe I should hit back and maybe someday I will but it's not like my normal style
It's all fascinating to watch and I think both of you
Are brilliant people and have early on for a long time really cared about agi
And had had great concerns about agi but a great hope for agi and that's cool to see
These big minds having those discussions, uh, even if they're tense at times
I think it was elon that said that uh, gpt is too woke
Is gpt too woke
Is can you steal man the case that it is and not this is going to ours?
Um question about bias, honestly, I barely know what woke means anymore
I did for a while and I feel like the word is more so I will say I think it was too biased
and
Will always be there will be no one version of gpt that the world ever agrees is unbiased
What?
I think is we've made a lot like again, even some of our harshest critics have
Gone off and been tweeting about 3.5 to 4 comparisons and being like wow these people really got a lot better
not that they don't have more work to do and we certainly do but I
I appreciate critics who display intellectual honesty like that. Yeah, and there there's been more of that than I would have thought
um
we will try to get the default version to be as
Neutral as possible but as neutral as possible is not that neutral if you have to do it again for more than one person
And so this is where
More steerability more control in the hands of the user the system message in particular
Is I think the real path forward
And as you pointed out these nuanced answers to look at something from several angles
Yeah, it's really really fascinating. It's really fascinating. Is there something to be said about the employees of a company?
Affecting the bias of the system 100
uh, we try to
avoid the
Sf
Group think bubble. Um, it's harder to avoid the ai group think bubble that follows you everywhere
There's all kinds of bubbles we live in 100. Yeah, i'm
going on like a
Around the world user tour soon for a month to just go like talk to our users in different cities
and
I can like feel how much i'm craving doing that because
I haven't done anything like that since in years. Um, I used to do that more for yc
And to go talk to people
in super different contexts
and it doesn't work over the internet like to go show up in person and like sit down and like
Go to the bars they go to and kind of like walk through the city like they do you learn so much
And get out of the bubble so much
um
I think we are much better than any other company. I know of in san francisco for not falling into the kind of like
Sf craziness, but i'm sure we're still pretty deeply in it
But is it possible to separate the bias of the model versus the bias of the employees?
The bias i'm most nervous about is the bias of the human feedback raters
Uh, so what's the selection of the human? Is there something you could speak to at a high level about the selection of the human raters?
This is the part that we understand the least. Well, we're great at the pre-training machinery
We're now trying to figure out how we're going to select those people
How like how we'll like verify that we get a representative sample
How we'll do different ones for different places, but we don't we don't have that functionality built out yet
such a fascinating
um
Science you clearly don't want like all american elite university students giving you your labels. Well, see it's not about
I'm, sorry. I just can never resist that dig. Yes. Nice
But it's so that that's a good
There's a million heuristics you can use that's a to me that's a shallow heuristic because
Uh universe like any one kind of category of human that you would think would have certain beliefs
Might actually be really open-minded in an interesting way
So you have to like optimize for how good you are actually answering at doing these kinds of rating tasks
How good you are at empathizing with an experience of other humans? That's a big one
Like and being able to actually like what does the world view look like?
For all kinds of groups of people that would answer this differently. I mean I have to do that
Constantly instead of like you've asked us a few times, but it's something I often do, you know, I ask people
In an interview or whatever to steal man
Uh the beliefs of someone they really disagree with and the inability of a lot of people to even pretend like they're willing to do
That is remarkable
Yeah, what I find unfortunately ever since covid even more so that there's almost an emotional barrier
It's not even an intellectual barrier before they even get to the intellectual there's an emotional barrier that says no
anyone who might possibly believe
x
They're they're an idiot they're evil they're
Malevolent anything you want to assign it's like they're not even like loading in the data into their head
Look, I think we'll find out that we can make gpt systems way less biased than any human. Yeah
so hopefully without the
Because there won't be that emotional load there. Yeah the emotional load
But there might be pressure there might be political pressure. Oh, there might be pressure to make a biased system
What I meant is the technology I think will be capable of being
Much less biased. Do you anticipate you worry about pressures?
