How do you decide what isn't isn't misinformation?
How do you decide what is true you actually have open as internal factual performance benchmark. There's a lot of cool benchmarks here
Uh, how do you build a benchmark for what is true?
What is truth?
Sam alban like math is true and the origin of covid
Is not agreed upon as ground truth
Those are the two things and then there's stuff that's like certainly not true
um
But between that first and second
Milestone
There's a lot of disagreement. What do you look for? What can a not not even just now but in the future?
where can
We as a human civilization look for
Look to for truth
What do you know is true?
What are you absolutely certain is true?
I have uh, generally epistemic humility about everything and i'm freaked out by how little I know and understand about the world
So that even that question is terrifying to me
um
There's a bucket of things that are
Have a high degree of truth in this which is where you put math
A lot of math. Yeah
Can't be certain but it's good enough for like this conversation. We can say math is true. Yeah, then I mean some uh,
Quite a bit of physics, uh, this historical facts
Uh, maybe dates of when a war started
There's a lot of details about military conflict inside inside history
Of course as you start to get you know
Just read blitzed
Which is oh, I want to read that. Yeah, so how was it?
It was really good. It's uh
It gives a theory of nazi germany and hitler
That so much can be described about hitler and a lot of the upper echelon of nazi germany through the excessive use of drugs
And then amphetamines right and phatamines but also other stuff, but it's just just a lot
and
Uh, you know, that's really interesting. It's really compelling and for some reason like
Whoa, that's really that would explain a lot. That's somehow really sticky
It's an idea that's sticky and then you read a lot of criticism of that book later by historians that that's actually
There's a lot of cherry picking going on and it's actually is using the fact that that's a very sticky explanation
There's something about humans that likes a very simple narrative describe everything for sure for sure and then yeah too much amphetamines cause the war is like a great
even if not true simple explanation that feels
Satisfying and excuses a lot of other probably much darker
Human truths. Yeah, the the military strategy
employed
uh the atrocities
the speeches
uh the
Just the way hitler was as a human being the way he was as a leader all that could be explained through this
One little lens and it's like well, that's if you say that's true. That's a really compelling truth
So maybe truth is in one sense is defined as a thing that is a collective intelligence. We
Kind of all our brains are sticking to and we're like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah a bunch of a bunch of ants get together
And like yeah, this is it. I was gonna say sheep, but there's a connotation to that
But yeah, it's hard to know what is true. And I think
When constructing a gpt like model you have to contend with that
I think a lot of the answers, you know, like if you ask
gpt for
I just stick on the same topic did covet leak from a lab. Yeah, I expect you would get a reasonable answer
It's a really good answer. Yeah
It laid out the the the hypotheses
the
The interesting thing it said
Which is refreshing to hear
Is there's um something like there's very little evidence for either hypothesis direct evidence
Which is is important to state a lot of people kind of the reason why there's a lot of uncertainty
And a lot of debate is because there's not strong physical evidence of either heavy circumstantial evidence on either side
and then the other is more like biological theoretical kind of
discussion and I think the answer the nuanced answer the gpt provider was actually
pretty damn good and also
Importantly saying that there is uncertainty just just the fact that there is uncertainty is the statement was really powerful
man, remember when like the social media platforms were banning people for
Saying it was a lab leak
Yeah
That's really humbling the humbling the overreach of power in censorship
But that that you're the more powerful gpt becomes the more pressure there will be to censor
We have a different set of challenges faced by the previous generation of companies which is
People talk about
Free speech issues with gpt, but it's not quite the same thing. It's not like
This is a computer program what it's allowed to say and it's also not about the mass spread
And the challenges that I think may have made
The twitter and facebook and others have struggled with so much so
We will have very significant challenges, but they'll be very new and very different
And maybe yeah very new very different way to put it there could be truths that are harmful in their truth
um
I don't know group differences in iq. There you go
Scientific work that when spoken might do more harm
And you ask gpt that should gpt tell you there's books written on this
that are rigorous scientifically but
Are very uncomfortable and probably not productive in any sense
But maybe are there's people arguing all kinds of sides of this and a lot of them have hate in their heart
And so what do you do with that if there's a large number of people who hate others?
but are actually
Citing scientific studies. What do you do with that? What does gpt do with that?
What is the priority of gpt to decrease the amount of hate in the world?
Is it up to gpt is it up to us humans?
I think we as open ai have responsibility for
The tools we put out into the world, I think the tools themselves can't have responsibility in the way I understand it. Wow, so you
You carry some of that burden for sure all of us all of us at the company
So there could be harm caused by this tool and there will be harm caused by this tool, um
There will be harm. There will be tremendous benefits
But you know tools do wonderful good and real bad
And we will minimize the bad and maximize the good and you have to carry the the weight of that
Uh, how do you avoid gpt for from being hacked or jailbroken
There's a lot of interesting ways that people have done that like, uh with token smuggling
Or other methods like dan
you know when I was like a
A kid basically, I I got worked once on jailbreak in an iphone the first iphone I think
and
I thought it was so cool
And I will say it's very strange to be on the other side of that
You're now the man kind of sucks
Um
Is that is some of it fun? How much of it is a security threat? I mean what?
How much do you have to take seriously? How is it even possible to solve this problem?
Where does it rank on the set of problems just keeping asking questions prompting?
we want
Users to have a lot of control and get the model to behave in the way they want
Within some very broad bounds
And I think the whole reason for jailbreaking is right now. We haven't yet figured out how to like give that to people
And the more we solve that problem
I think the less need there will be for jailbreaking
Yeah, it's kind of like piracy
gave birth to spotify
People don't really jailbreak iphones that much anymore and it's gotten harder for sure
But also like you can just do a lot of stuff now
Just like with jailbreaking. I mean, there's a lot of hilarity that is in
um
so
Evan murakawa cool guy. He's at open.ai. He tweeted something that he also was really kind to send me
To communicate with me send me a long email describing the history of open.ai all the different developments
um
He really lays it out. I mean, that's a much longer conversation of all the awesome stuff that happened. It's just
amazing, but his tweet was uh, dali
July 22 chad gpt. November 22 api 66 cheaper august 22 embeddings 500
Times cheaper while state of the art december 22 chad gpt api also 10 times cheaper while state of the art march 23
Whisper api march 23 gpt4 today whenever that was last week
and uh the conclusion is
This team ships we do
Uh, what's the process of going and then we can extend that back?
I mean listen from the 2015 open.ai launch gpt gpt2 gpt3
Open.ai 5 finals with the gaming stuff, which is incredible gpt3 api released
Uh dolly instruct gpt tech. I could find fine tuning
Uh, there's just a million things uh available dolly dolly 2
preview and then dolly is available to 1 million people whisper a second model release just across all of the stuff both research and
um
Deployment of actual products that could be in the hands of people
What is the process of going from idea to deployment that allows you to be so successful at shipping ai based?
uh products
I mean, there's a question of should we be really proud of that or should other companies be really embarrassed?
yeah, and
we
Believe in a very high bar for the people on the team
we
Work hard
Which you know, you're not even like supposed to say anymore or something
um
we
give a huge amount of
trust and autonomy and authority to individual people
And we try to hold each other to very high standards
and
You know, there's a process which we can talk about but it won't be that illuminating
I think it's those other things that
Make us able to ship at a high velocity
So gpt4 is a pretty complex system. Like you said there's like a
Million little hacks you can do to keep improving it
Uh, there's a the cleaning up the data set all that all those are like separate teams. So do you give autonomy? Is there just
Autonomy to these fascinating different
Problems if like most people in the company weren't really excited to work super hard and collaborate well on gpt4 and thought other stuff was more
Important there'd be very little I or anybody else could do to make it happen
but
We spend a lot of time figuring out what to do getting on the same page about why we're doing something
And then how to divide it up and all coordinate together
So then then you have like a passion for the for the for the goal here
So everybody's really passionate across the different teams. Yeah, we care. How do you hire?
How you hire great teams?
The folks have interacted with opening eyes some of the most amazing folks i've ever met it takes a lot of time like I I spend
I mean, I think a lot of people claim to spend a third of their time hiring I for real truly do
Um, I still approve every single hired opening eye
and I think there's
You know, we're working on a problem that is like very cool and the great people want to work on
We have great people and some people want to be around them. But even with that I think there's just no shortcut for
Putting a ton of effort into this
So even when you have the good the good people hard work I think so
Microsoft announced the new multi-year multi-billion dollar reported to be 10 billion dollars investment into open ai
