Can you describe the thinking?
Uh that went into this
What what are the pros what are the cons?
of working with the company like microsoft
It's not all
Perfect or easy but on the whole they have been an amazing partner to us
Satya and kevin and mikael
Are are super aligned with us
Super flexible have gone like way above and beyond the call of duty to do things that we have needed to get all this to work
Um, this is like a big iron complicated engineering project
And they are a big and complex company
and
I think like many great partnerships or relationships
We've sort of just continued to ramp up our investment in each other
And it's been very good
It's a for-profit company. It's very driven
It's very large scale
Is there pressure to kind of make a lot of money I think most other companies
Wouldn't maybe now they would it wouldn't at the time have understood why we needed all the weird control provisions
We have and why we need all the kind of like agi specialness
And I know that because I talked to some other companies before we did the first deal with microsoft
And I think they were they are unique in terms of the companies at that scale
That understood why we needed the control provisions we have
And so those control provisions help you help make sure that uh, the capitalist imperative does not
affect the development of AI
Well, let me just ask you
As an aside about uh, satya nadala the ceo of microsoft. He seems to have successfully transformed microsoft
into into
This fresh innovative developer friendly company. I agree. What do you
I mean, it's really hard to do for a very large company
Uh, what what have you learned from him? Why do you think he was able to do this kind of thing?
um
Yeah, what?
What insights do you have about why this one human being is able to contribute to the pivot of a large company into something?
uh very new
I think most
Ceos are either great leaders or great managers
And from what I observe have observed with satya
He is both
Super visionary really like gets people excited really makes
long duration and correct calls
And also he is just a super effective hands-on executive and I assume manager too
And I think that's pretty rare
I mean microsoft i'm guessing like ibm or like a lot of companies have been at it for a while
Probably have like old school
kind of momentum
So you like inject ai into it. It's very tough. All right, or anything even like open source the the culture of open source
um
like how
How hard is it to walk into a room and be like the way we've been doing things are totally wrong
Like i'm sure there's a lot of firing involved or a little like twisting of arms or something
So do you have to rule by fear by love like what can you say to the leadership aspects of this?
I mean, he's just like done an unbelievable job, but he is amazing at being
like
Clear and firm
and
Getting people to want to come along but also
like compassionate and patient
with his people too
I'm getting a lot of love not fear. I'm a big satya fan
So am I from a distance
I mean you have so much in your life trajectory that I can ask you about we can probably talk for many more hours
