But I gotta ask you because of Y Combinator because of startups and so on the recent
And you've tweeted about this, uh about the silicon valley bank
Svb, what's your best understanding of what happened? What is interesting?
What is interesting to understand about what happened with svb? I think they just like horribly mismanaged
buying
While chasing returns in a very silly world of zero percent interest rates
Buying very long dated instruments
Secured by very short-term and variable deposits and this was obviously dumb
I think
Totally the fault of the management team, although i'm not sure what the regulators were thinking either
And
Is an example of where I think
You see the dangers of incentive misalignment
because
As the fed kept raising
I assume
That the incentives on people
Working at svb to not
Sell at a loss
Their you know, super safe bonds, which we're now down 20 percent or whatever
Or, you know down less than that but then kept going down
You know, that's like a classy example of incentive misalignment
Now I suspect they're not the only bank in the bad position here
The response of the federal government
I think took much longer than it should have but by sunday afternoon, I was glad they had done what they've done
We'll see what happens next
So, how do you avoid depositors from doubting their bank what I think is the most important thing
Needs would be good to do right now is just a
And this requires statutory change
But it may be a full guarantee of deposits. Maybe a much much higher than 250k
But you really don't want
depositors
having to doubt
The security of their deposits and this thing that a lot of people on twitter were saying is like well
It's their fault. They should have been like, you know reading the the the balance sheet and the the risk audit of the bank
Like do we really want people to have to do that? I would argue no
What impact has it had on startups that you see well there was a weekend of terror for sure
And now I think even though it was only 10 days ago
It feels like forever and people have forgotten about it, but it kind of reveals the fragility of our economics
We may not be done that may have been like the gun shown falling off the nightstand in the first scene of the movie or whatever
It could be like other banks for sure. That could be
well even with ftx, I mean i'm just
uh
Was that fraud but there's mismanagement
And you wonder how stable our economic system is
Especially with new entrants with agi I think
One of the many lessons to take away from this svb thing is how much?
How fast and how much the world changes and how little I think our experts
Leaders business leaders regulators, whatever understand it. So the
The speed with which the svb bank run happened
Because of twitter because of mobile banking apps, whatever so different than the 2008 collapse where we didn't have those things really
And
I don't think that kind of the people in power realize how much the field had shifted and I think that is a
Very tiny preview of the shifts that agi will bring
What gives you hope in that shift from an economic perspective
uh
Because it sounds scary the instability. I know I I am
nervous about the speed with with this changes and the speed with which
Our institutions can adapt. Um
Which is part of why we want to start deploying these systems really early why they're really weak
So that people have as much time as possible to do this. I think it's really scary to like
Have nothing nothing nothing and then drop a super powerful agi all at once on the world
I don't think
People should want that to happen
but what gives me hope is like I think the less zeros the more positive some of the world gets the better and the the
upside of the vision here
Just how much better life can be?
I think that's gonna like
unite a lot of us and
Even if it doesn't it's just gonna make it all feel more positive some
