When you uh create an agi system, you'll be one of the few people in the room. They get to interact with it first
Assuming gpt4 is not that
Uh, what question would you ask her him it what discussion would you have?
You know one of the things that I have realized like this is a little aside and not that important but I have never felt
Any pronoun other than it towards any of our systems but most other people
Say him or her or something like that
And I wonder why I
Am so different like yeah, I don't know maybe it's I watch it develop. Maybe it's I think more about it, but
i'm curious where that difference comes from I think probably you could because you watch it develop but then again
I watch a lot of stuff develop and I always go to him and her I anthropomorphize
this
aggressively
And certainly most humans do I think it's really important that we try to
Explain to educate people that this is a tool and not a creature
I think I yes
But I also think there will be a room in society for creatures
And we should draw hard lines between those
If something's a creature i'm happy for people to like think of it and talk about it as a creature
But I think it is dangerous to project creatureness onto a tool
That's one perspective
A perspective I would take if it's done transparently
Is projecting creatureness onto a tool makes that tool more usable
If it's done well, yeah, so if there's if there's like kind of ui affordances that
Work I understand that I still think we want to be like pretty careful with it
Because the more creature like it is the more it can manipulate manipulate you emotionally or just the more you
Think that it's doing something or should be able to do something or rely on it for something that it's not capable of
What if it is capable what about sam almond? What if it's capable of love?
Do you think there will be romantic relationships like in the movie her with gpt
There are companies now that offer
Like for backup lack of a better word like romantic companionship ais
Replica is an example of such a company. Yeah, I personally don't feel
Any interest in that so you're focusing on creating intelligent, but I understand why other people do
That's interesting. I'm I have for some reason i'm very drawn to that
Have you spent a lot of time interacting with replica or anything somewhere replica, but also just building stuff myself
like I have robot dogs now that I
uh use
um, I use the the movement of the the the robots to communicate emotion i've been
Exploiting how to do that
Look, there are going to be
Very interactive
Gpt4 powered pets or whatever
robots
companions and
A lot of people seem really excited about that. Yeah, there's a lot of interesting possibilities. I think
You you'll discover them. I think as you go along. That's the whole point like the things you say in this conversation
You might in a year say
This was right. No, I may totally want I may turn out that I like love my gpt4
Maybe you're a robot or whatever. Maybe you want your programming assistant to be a little kinder and not mock you
You're incompetent. No, I think you do want um
The style of the way gpt4 talks to you, yes really matters
You probably want something different than what I want, but we both probably want something different than the current gpt4
And that will be really important even for a very tool-like thing
Is there styles of conversation? Oh, no contents of conversations you're looking forward to with an agi
