like gpt
5-6-7 is there stuff where
Like where do you go to outside of the fun meme stuff for actual like what i'm excited for is like
Please explain to me how all the physics works and solve all remaining mysteries
So like a theory of everything i'll be real happy
faster than light
Travel don't you want to know?
So there's several things to know it's like and and be hard
Is it possible in how to do it?
Um, yeah, I want to know I want to know probably the first question would be are there other intelligent alien civilizations out there?
But I don't think agi has the not the ability to do that to to to know that might be able to help us figure out
how to go detect
And we need to like send some emails to humans and say can you run these experiments?
Can you build the space probe? Can you wait, you know a very long time or provide a much better estimate than that drake equation?
Yeah, uh with with the knowledge we already have and maybe process all the because we've been collecting a lot of yeah
You know, maybe it's in the data. Maybe we need to build better detectors
Which did a really advanced data could tell us how to do it may not be able to answer it on its own
But it may be able to tell us what to go build
To collect more data. What if it says the aliens are already here?
I think I would just go about my life. Yeah
Uh, I mean a version of that is like what are you doing differently?
What are you doing differently now that like if if gpt4 told you and you believed it? Okay agi is here
Or agi is coming real soon
What are you going to do differently the source of joy and happiness and fulfillment of life is from other humans. So it's
Mostly nothing right unless it causes some kind of threat
And but that threat would have to be like literally a fire
Like are we are we living now with a greater degree of digital intelligence than you would have expected three years ago in the world
And if you could go back and be told by an oracle three years ago, which is you know blink of an eye that in
March of 2023 you will be living with
this degree of
Digital intelligence. Would you expect your life to be more different than it is right now?
Probably probably but there's also a lot of different trajectories intermixed. I would have expected the um society's response to a pandemic
Uh to be much better
much clearer
Less divided I was very confused about there's there's a lot of stuff given the amazing technological advancements not happening the weird social divisions
It's almost like the more technological advancement
There is the more we're going to be having fun with social division or maybe the technological advancement
Just reveal the division that was already there, but all of that just make the confuses
My understanding of how far along we are as a human civilization
And what brings us meaning and what how we discover truth together and knowledge and wisdom
So I don't I don't know but when I look I when I open wikipedia
I'm happy that humans are able to create this thing. Yes. There is bias. Yes
But it's it's a triumphal. It's a triumph of human civilization
Google search the search search period is incredible the way it was able to do, you know, 20 years ago
And and now this this is this new thing gpt
Is like is this like going to be the next like the conglomeration of all of that that made? Uh,
web search and
Wikipedia so magical but now more directly accessible you can have a conversation with the damn thing
It's incredible
