Let me ask you for advice
For young people in high school and college what to do with their life
They how to have a career they can be proud of how to have a life. They can be proud of
You wrote a blog post a few years ago titled how to be successful
And there's a bunch of really really people should check out that blog post. There's so
It's so succinct and so brilliant. You have a bunch of bullet points
compound yourself
Have almost too much self-belief learn to think independently get good at sales and quotes make it easy to take risks focus
Work hard as we talked about be bold be willful be hard to compete with build a network
You get rich by owning things be internally driven
What stands out to you from that or beyond as advice you can give?
Yeah, no, I think it is like good advice
in some sense
but I also think
It's way too tempting to take advice
from other people
And the stuff that worked for me, which I tried to write down there
Probably doesn't work that well or may not work as well for other people
or like other people may find out that they want to
Just have a super different life trajectory and I think I mostly
Got what I wanted by ignoring advice
And I think like I tell people not to listen to too much advice
Listening to advice from other people should be approached with great caution
How would you describe how you've approached life?
outside of this advice
That you would advise to other people so really just in the quiet of your mind to think
What gives me happiness? What is the right thing to do here? How can I have the most impact?
I wish it were that
You know
introspective all the time
It's a lot of just like, you know
What will bring me joy? What will bring me fulfillment?
You know what will bring what will be uh, I do think a lot about what I can do that will be useful but like
Who do I want to spend my time with what I want to spend my time doing?
Like a fish in water just going around with the car. Yeah
That's certainly what it feels like. I mean, I think that's what most people
Would say if they were really honest about it
Yeah, if they really
Think yeah, and some of that then
Gets to the sam harris discussion of free will being an illusion, of course very well might be which is a a really complicated
Thing to wrap your head around
What do you think is the meaning of this whole thing
