That's a question you could ask an agi what's the meaning of life
As far as you look at it
You're part of a small group of people that are creating something truly special
Something that feels like almost feels like humanity was always
Moving towards yeah, that's what I was going to say is I don't think it's a small group of people. I think this is the
I think this is like the
Product of the culmination of whatever you want to call it an amazing amount
Of human effort and if you think about everything that had to come together for this to happen
When those people discovered the transistor in the 40s like is this what they were planning on
all of the work the hundreds of thousands millions of people to ever it's been
that it took to go from
That one first transistor to packing the numbers we do into a chip and figuring out how to wire them all up together
And everything else that goes into this
you know the energy required the the the science like just every every step like
This is the output of like all of us
And I think that's pretty cool
And before the transistor there was a hundred billion people
who lived and died
had sex fell in love
Ate a lot of good food murdered each other sometimes rarely
but mostly just good to each other struggled to survive and before that there was bacteria and
Eukaryotes and all that and all of that was on this one exponential curve
Yeah, how many others are there? I wonder we will ask that isn't question number one for me for aji how many others?
And i'm not sure which answer I want to hear
Sam you're an incredible person. Uh, it's an honor to talk to you. Thank you for the work you're doing
Like I said, i've talked to ilius escarra. I talked to greg. I talked to so many people at open ai
They're really good people. They're doing really interesting work. We are going to try our hardest to get
To get to a good place here. I think the challenges are
tough I I understand that not everyone agrees with our approach of
iterative deployment and also iterative discovery
But it's what we believe in. Uh, I think we're making good progress
And I think the pace is fast
But so is the progress so so like the pace of capabilities and change is fast
But I think that also means we will have new tools to figure out alignment and sort of the capital s safety problem
I feel like we're in this together. I can't wait what we together as a human civilization come up with it's gonna be great
I think we'll work really hard to make sure
Thanks for listening to this conversation with sam altman to support this podcast. Please check out our sponsors in the description
And now let me leave you with some words from alan touring in
1951
It seems probable
That once the machine thinking method has started
It would not take long to outstrip our feeble powers
At some stage therefore we should have to expect the machines to take control
Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time
Hope to see you next time
You
You
[ Silence ]
