uh, so open ai
went um
Stopped being non-profit or split up. Um in 20. Can you describe that whole process? Yeah, so we started as a non-profit
Um, we learned early on that we were going to need far more capital than we were able to raise as a non-profit
Um, our non-profit is still fully in charge
There is a subsidiary capped profit so that our investors and employees can earn a certain fixed return
And then beyond that everything else flows to the non-profit and the non-profit is like in voting control lets us make a bunch of non-standard decisions
Um can cancel equity can do a whole bunch of other things can let us merge with another org
um
Protects us from making decisions that are not in any like shareholders interest
So I think it's a structure that has been important to a lot of the decisions we've made what went into that decision process
Uh for taking a leap from non-profit to capped for profit
What are the pros and cons you were deciding at the time I mean this was it was 19 it was really like
To do what we needed to go do we had tried and failed enough to raise the money as a non-profit
We didn't see a path forward there
So we needed some of the benefits of capitalism, but not too much
I remember at the time someone said, you know as a non-profit not enough will happen
As a for-profit too much will happen. So we need this sort of strange intermediate
What you kind of had this off-hand comment of
You worry about the uncapped companies that play with agi
Can you elaborate on the worry here because agi out of all the technologies we?
Have in our hands is the potential to make is uh, the cap is 100x
For open ai it started is that it's much much lower for like new investors now
You know agi can make a lot more than 100x for sure
and so how do you um
Like how do you compete like?
Stepping outside of open ai. How do you look at a world where google is playing?
Where apple and these and meta are playing we can't control what other people are going to do
Um, we can try to like build something and talk about it and influence others
and provide value and you know good systems for the world, but
They're going to do what they're going to do
now
I I think right now there's like
Extremely fast and not super deliberate motion inside of some of these companies
But already I think people are as they see
the rate of progress
Already people are grappling with what's at stake here. And I think the better angels are going to win out
Can you elaborate on that the better angels of individuals the individuals within the companies but you know the incentives of capitalism to?
Create and capture unlimited value
I'm a little afraid of
But again, no, I think no one wants to destroy the world. No one except saying like today. I want to destroy the world
So we've got the the malik problem on the other hand
We've got people who are very aware of that and I think a lot of healthy conversation about
How can we collaborate to minimize?
Some of these very scary downsides
Well, nobody wants to destroy the world let me ask you a tough question so
