you remember like the purple links? There were some interesting design decisions that to kind of come up that we have today
or we don't have today that were temporary. - So I made the background 'cause I hated reading texts
on white background, so I made the background gray. Everybody can-- - Do you go ahead to?
- No. No, no. That decision I think has been reversed. But now I'm happy though because now dark mode is the thing.
- So it wasn't about gray, it was just you didn't want white background. - [Marc] Strain my eyes.
- Strain your eyes. Interesting. And then there's a bunch of other decisions.
I'm sure there's an interesting history of the development of HTML and CSS and Interface and JavaScript
and there's this whole Java applet thing. - Well the big one probably JavaScript, CSS was after me,
so I didn't, that was not me. But JavaScript was the big, JavaScript maybe was the biggest of the whole thing. That was us.
And that was basically a bet, it was a bet on two things. One is that the world wanted a new front end scripting language.
And then the other was I thought at the time the world wanted a new backend scripting language. So JavaScript was designed from the beginning
to be both front end and backend. And then it failed as a backend scripting language. And Java won for a long time.
And then Python Pearl and other things, PHP and Ruby. But now JavaScript is back. And so.
- I wonder if everything in the end will run on JavaScript. - It seems like it is the, and by the way,
lemme give a shout out to, to Brendan Eich was basically the one man inventor of of JavaScript.
- If you're interested to learn more about Brendan Eich, he's been on his podcast previously. - Exactly. So he wrote JavaScript over a summer
and I mean I think it is fair, it is fair to say now that it's the most widely used language in the world and it seems to only be gaining
in its in its range of adoption. - You know, in the software world there's quite a few stories of somebody
over a week weekend or over a week or over a summer writing some of the most impactful revolutionary pieces
of software ever. That should be inspiring. Yes. - Very inspiring. I'll give you another one.
SSL. So SSL with the security protocol, that was us. And that was a crazy idea at the time,
which was let's take all the native protocols and let's wrap them in a security wrapper. That was a guy named Kip Hickman who wrote that over a summer, one guy.
And then look today, sitting here today, like the transformer like at Google was a small handful of people.
And then, you know, the number of people who have did like the core work on GPT. It's not that many people,
it's a pretty small handful of people. And so yeah, the pattern in software repeatedly over a very long time has been,
it's Jeff Bezos always had the two pizza rule for teams at Amazon, which is any team needs to be able to be fed
with two pieces. If you need the third pizza, you have too many people. And I think it's actually the one pizza rule.
For the really creative work. I think it's two people, three people. - Well that's, you see that
with certain open source projects, like so much is done by like one or two people. Like it's so incredible and that's why you see
that gives me so much hope about the open source movement in this new age of AI where, you know,
just recently having had a conversation with Marc Zuckerberg of all people who's all in on open source,
which is so interesting to see and so inspiring to see 'cause like releasing these models, it is scary.
It is potentially very dangerous and we'll talk about that. But it's also,
if you believe in the goodness of most people and in the skillset of most people
and the desire to go do good in the world, that's really exciting. 'cause it's not putting it these models
into the centralized control of big corporations, the government and so on. It's putting it in the hands of a teen,
teenage kid with like a dream in his eyes. I don't know. That's beautiful.
- Look, this stuff, AI ought to make the individual coder obviously far more productive right? By like, you know, a thousand X or something.
And so you ought to open source like, not just the future of open source AI, but the future of open source everything.
We ought to have a world now of super coders, right? Who are building things as open source with one or two people that were inconceivable,
you know, five years ago. You know, the level of kind of hyper productivity we're gonna get out of our best and brightest
I think is gonna go way up. - It's gonna be interesting. We'll talk about it, but let's just to linger a little bit on Netscape.
