Netscape was acquired in 1999 for 4.3 billion by AOL.
What was that like? What were some memorable aspects of that? - Well that was the height of the.com boom bubble bust.
I mean that was the frenzy. If you watch succession, that was like what they did in the fourth season
with Gojo and the merger with their, so it was like the height of like one of those kind of dynamics. And so.
- Would you recommend succession, by the way? I'm more of a Yellowstone guy. - Yellowstone's very American.
I'm very proud of you. That's, that is. - I just talked to Matthew McConaughey and I'm full on Texan at this point.
- Good. I approve. - And he'll be doing the SQL to Yellowstone. - [Marc] Yeah, just exciting.
- Very exciting. Anyway. - [Marc] Can't wait. - So that's a rude interruption by me by way of succession.
So, that was at the height of the-- - Deal making and money and just the fur flying and like craziness.
And so yeah, it was just one of those, it was just like, I mean, and this, the entire (indistinct) thing from start to finish was four years,
which was like for one of these companies, it's just like incredibly fast. You know, it went, we went public 18 months after we got moved
where we were founded, which virtually never happens. So it was just this incredibly fast kind of meteor streaking across the sky.
And then of course it was this, and then there was just this explosion, right? That happened 'cause then it was almost immediately followed by the.com crash.
It was then followed by AOL, by Time Warner, which again is like the succession guys kinda play with that,
which turned out to be a disastrous deal. You know, one of the famous, you know, kind of disastrous in business history.
And then, you know, what became an internet depression on the other side of that. But then in that depression in the two thousands was
the beginning of broadband and smartphones and Web 2.0 right? And then social media and search and every SaaS
and everything that came out of that. - What did you learn from just the acquisition? I mean this is so much money.
What's interesting 'cause I must have been very new to you, that these software stuff,
you can make so much money. There's so much money swimming around. I mean, I'm sure the ideas of investment was
starting to get born there. - Yes. Let me get, so let me lay it. So here's, here's the thing. I dunno if I figured it out then, but figured it out later,
which is software is a technology that it, it's like a, you know, the concept of the philosopher stone,
the philosopher stone in alchemy, transient is led into gold and Newton spent 20 years trying to find the philosopher stone. Never got there.
Nobody's ever figured it out. Software is our modern philosopher stone. And in economic terms, it transmutes labor into capital,
which is like a super interesting thing. And by the way, like Carl Marcs is rolling over in his grave right now. 'Cause of course that's complete reputation
of his entire theory. Trans labor and capital which is as follows, is somebody sits down at a keyboard
and types a bunch of stuff in, and a capital asset comes out the other side and then somebody buys that capital asset
for a billion dollars. Like that's amazing, right? It's literally creating value right out of thin air,
right out of purely human thought, right? And so that, there are many things
that make software magical and special, but that's the economics. - I wonder what Marx would've thought about that?
- Oh, he would've completely broke his brain because of course the whole thing was it was he could, you know, that kind of technology was inconceivable
when he was alive. It was all industrial era stuff. And so, any kind of machinery necessarily involved
huge amounts of capital. And then labor was on the receiving end of the abuse. - [Lex] Yep.
Right? But like software eng software, a software engineer is somebody who basically transmutes his own labor into actual,
an actual capital asset creates permanent value. Well, and in fact it's actually very inspiring. That's actually more true today than before.
So when I was doing software, the assumption was all new software basically has a sort of a parabolic sort of lifecycle, right?
So you ship the thing, people buy it at some point, everybody who wants it has bought it and then it becomes obsolete.
And it's like bananas. Nobody, nobody buys old software. These days, Minecraft, Mathematica,
you know, Facebook, Google, you have the software assets that are, you know,
have been around for 30 years that are gaining in value every year, right? And they're just, they're being a world of warcraft, right,
salesforce.com, like they're being every single year they're being polished and polished and polished and polished. They're getting better and better, more powerful,
more powerful, more valuable, more valuable. So we've entered this era where you can actually have these things that actually build out over decades. Which by the way is what's happening
right now with like ChatGPT. And so now, this is why, you know,
there is always, you know, sort of a constant investment frenzy around software is because, you know, look, when you start one of these things,
it doesn't always succeed. But when it does now you might be building an asset that builds value for, you know, four or five, six decades to come.
You know, if you have a team of people who have the level of devotion required to keep making it better.
And then the fact that of course everybody's online, you know, there's 5 billion people that are a click away from any new piece of software.
So the potential market size for any of these things is, you know, nearly infinite. - [Lex] It must have been surreal back then though.
- Yeah. Yeah. This was all brand new, right? Yeah. Back then, this was all brand new. These were all, you know, brand new. Had you rolled out that theory in even 1999,
people would've thought you were smoking crack. So that's emerged over time. - Well, let's now turn back into the future.
