You wrote the essay "Why AI Will Save The World?" Let's start the very high level.
What's the main thesis of the essay? - Yeah, so the main thesis on the essay is that what we're dealing with here is intelligence.
And it's really important to kind of talk about the sort of very nature of what intelligence is. And fortunately we have a predecessor
to machine intelligence, which is human intelligence. And we've got, you know, observations and theories over thousands of years
for what intelligence is in the hands of humans and what intelligence is, right? I mean, what it literally is the way to,
you know, capture, process, analyze, synthesize information, solve problems. But the observation of intelligence in human hands is
that intelligence quite literally makes everything better. And what I mean by that is every kind of outcome
of like human quality of life, whether it's education outcomes or success of your children, or career success
or health or lifetime satisfaction, by the way, propensity to peacefulness as opposed to violence,
propensity for open-mindedness versus bigotry, those are all associated with higher levels of intelligence.
- Smarter people have better outcomes than almost as you write in almost every domain of activity. Academic achievement, job performance,
occupational status, income, creativity, physical health, longevity, learning new skills, managing complex tasks, leadership, entrepreneurial success,
conflict resolution, reading comprehension, financial decision making, understanding others perspectives, creative arts,
parenting outcomes, and life satisfaction. One of the more depressing conversations I've had,
and I don't know why it's depressing, I have to really think through why it's depressing, but on IQ and the G factor,
and that that's something in large part is genetic
and it correlates so much with all of these things and success in life.
It's like all the inspirational stuff we read about, like if you work hard and so on,
it sucks that you're born with the hand that you can't change. - But what if you could.
- You're saying basically a really important point, and I think it's in your articles, it really helped me.
It's a nice added perspective to think about. Listen, human intelligence,
the science of intelligence is shown scientifically that it just makes life easier and better the smarter you are.
And now let's look at artificial intelligence and if that's a way to increase some human intelligence,
then it's only going to make a better life. - [Marc] Yeah. - That's the argument. - And certainly at the collective level, we could talk about the collective effect
of just having more intelligence in the world, which will have very big payoff. But there's also just at the individual level,
like what if every person has a machine? You know? And the concept of augment Doug Engelbart's concept of augmentation.
You know, what if everybody has an assistant and the assistant is, you know,
140 IQ and you happen to be 110 IQ and you've got, you know,
something that basically is infinitely patient and knows everything about you and is pulling for you in every possible way, wants you to be successful.
And anytime you find anything confusing or wanna learn anything or have trouble understanding something or wanna figure out what to do in a situation, right?
Wanna figure out how to prepare for a job interview, like any of these things, like it will help you do it. And it will therefore,
the combination will effectively be, you know, will effectively raise your raise because it will effectively raise your IQ,
will therefore raise the odds of successful life outcomes in all these areas. - So people below the, this hypothetical 140 IQ,
it'll pull them up towards 140 IQ. - Yeah, yeah, yeah. And then of course, you know, people at 140 IQ will be able to have a peer, right.
To be able to communicate, which is great. And then people above 140 IQ will have an assistance that they can farm things out to. And then look, God willing, you know,
at some point these things go from future versions go from 140 IQ equivalent to 150 to 160 to 180, right?
Like Einstein was estimated to be on the order of one 60, you know, so when we get, you know, one 60 AI,
like we'll be, you know, when one assumes creating Einstein level breakthroughs and physics, and then at 180 we'll be, you know,
carrying cancer and developing warp drive and doing all kinds of stuff. And so it is quite possibly the case,
this is the most important thing that's ever happened and the best thing that's ever happened because precisely because it's a lever on this single fundamental factor of intelligence,
which is the thing that drives so much of everything else. - Can you steal, man, the case that human plus AI is not always better than human
for the individual? - You may have noticed that there's a lot of smart running around. - [Lex] Sure. Yes. - Right? And so, like smart,
there are certain people where they get smarter, you know, they get to be more arrogant, right? So that, you know, there's one huge flaw.
- Although to push back on that, it might be interesting because when the intelligence is not
all coming from you, but from another system, that might actually increase the amount of humility
even in the assholes. - [Marc] One would hope. - Yeah. - Or it could make assholes more assholes.
You know, that's in, I mean, that's for psychology to study. - Yeah, exactly. Another one is smart people are very convinced that they,
you know, have a more rational view of the world, and that they have a easier time seeing through conspiracy theories and hoaxes and right.
You know, sort of crazy beliefs and all that. There's a theory in psychology, which is actually smart people. So for sure people who aren't as smart are very susceptible
to hoaxes and conspiracy theories. But it may also be the case that the smarter you get, you become susceptible in a different way,
which is you become very good at marshaling facts to fit preconceptions, right.
You become very, very good at assembling whatever theories and frameworks and pieces of data and graphs and charts you need to validate
whatever crazy ideas got in your head. And so you're susceptible in a different way, right?
- We're all sheep, but different colored sheep. - Some sheep are better at justifying it. Right.
And those are the, you know, those are the smart sheep, right? So yeah. Look like I would say this look like there are no panacea.
I'm not a utopian, there are no panaceas in life. There are no, like, you know, I don't believe there are like pure positives.
I'm not a transcendental kind of person like that. But, you know, so yeah, there are gonna be issues and, you know, look, smart people,
another maybe you could save about smart people is they are more likely to get themselves in situations that are, you know, beyond their grasp. You know, because they're just more confident
in their ability to deal with complexity and their eyes become bigger, their cognitive eyes become bigger than their stomach, you know?
So yeah, you could argue those eight different ways nevertheless, on net, right? Clearly, overwhelmingly, again,
if you just extrapolate from what we know about human intelligence, you're improving so many aspects of life if you're upgrading intelligence.
- So there'll be assistants at all stages of life. So when you're younger, there's for education,
all that kind of stuff for mentorship, all of this. And later on as you're doing work and you've developed
a skill and you're having a profession, you'll have an assistant that helps you excel at that profession.
So at all stages of life. - Yeah. I mean, look, the theory is augmentation. This is the Doug Engelbart's term. Doug Engelbart made
this observation many, many decades ago that, you know, basically it's like you can have this oppositional frame of technology where it's like us versus the machines,
but what you really do is you use technology to augment human capabilities. And by the way, that's how actually the economy develops.
That's, we can talk about the economic side of this, but that's actually how the economy grows is through technology augmenting human potential.
And so, yeah. And then you basically have a proxy or you know, or you know, a sort of prosthetic, you know,
so like you've got glasses, you've got a wristwatch, you know, you've got shoes, you know,
you've got these things. You've got a personal computer, you've got a word processor, you've got Mathematica, you've got Google.
This is the latest viewed through that lens. AI is the latest in a long series of basically augmentation
methods to be able to raise human capabilities. It's just this one is the most powerful one of all, because this is the one that, that goes directly
to what they call fluid intelligence, which is IQ. - Well, there's two categories of folks
