I would love to take on this because you mentioned this in the essay about nuclear, which was also, I mean,
you don't shy away from a little bit of of a spicy take. So Robert Oppenheimer famously said,
now I am become death the destroyer of worlds as he witnessed the first destination of a nuclear weapon
on July 16th, 1945. And you write an interesting historical perspective,
"Recall that John Van Neuman responded to Robert Oppenheimer's famous hand wringing about the role
of creating nuclear weapons, which you note helped end World War II
and prevent World War III with some people confess guilt to claim credit for the sin."
And you also mentioned that Truman was harsher after meeting Oppenheimer. He said that "Don't let that cry baby in here again."
- Real quote, by the way, from Dean Atchison.
- Boy. - 'Cause Oppenheimer didn't just say the famous line. - [Lex] Yeah. - He then spent years going around basically moaning him,
you know, going on TV and going into going into the White House and basically like, just like doing this hair shirt, you know, thing self, you know, this sort of self-critical like,
oh my god, I can't believe how awful I am. - So he's widely considered perhaps of the,
because of the hang ringing as the father of the tom bomb. - [Marc] Yeah. - This is Van Norman's criticism of him is he tried to have
his cake and eat it too. Like he wanted to and Van Norman of course a very different kind of personality and he's just like, yeah, good.
This is like an incredibly useful thing. I'm glad we did it. - Yeah. Well Van Norman is is widely credit as being
one of the smartest humans of the 20th century. Certain people. Everybody says like,
this is the smartest person I've ever met when they've met him. Anyway, that doesn't mean, smart doesn't mean wise.
So yeah, I would love to sort of, can you make the case both for and against the critique
of Oppenheimer here? 'Cause we're talking about nuclear weapons. Boy, do they seem dangerous?
- Well so, the critique goes deeper and I left this out. Here's the real substance, I left it out 'cause I didn't wanna dwell
on nukes in my AI paper. But here's the deeper thing that happened and I'm really curious, this movie coming out this summer,
I'm really curious to see how far he pushes this. 'cause this is the real drama in the story, which is, it wasn't just a question of our nukes, good or bad,
it was a question of should Russia also have them? And what actually happened was Russia got
the American invented the bomb. Russia got the bomb, they got the bomb through espionage,
they got American and you know, they got American scientists and foreign scientists working on the American project. Some combination of the two basically gave the Russians
the designs for the bomb. And that's how the Russians got the bomb. There's this dispute to this day of Oppenheimer's role
in that if you read all the histories, the kind of composite picture, and by the way,
we now know a lot actually about Soviet espionage in that era 'cause there's been all this declassified material in the last 20 years that actually shows a lot of very interesting things.
But if you kinda read all the histories, which you kinda get is Oppenheimer himself probably was not he probably did not hand over the nuclear secrets himself.
However, he was close to many people who did. Including family members. And there were other members of the Manhattan Project
who were Russian, Soviet SS and did hand over the bomb. And so the view of that Oppenheimer and people like him had
that this thing is awful and terrible and oh my god. And you know, all this stuff you could argue fed into this ethos
at the time that resulted in people thinking that the Baptists thinking that the only principle thing to do was to give
the Russians the bomb. And so the moral beliefs on this thing and the public discussion
and the role that the inventors of this technology play, this is the point of this book, when they kind of take on this sort of public intellectual,
moral kind of thing, it can have real consequences, right? Because we live in a very different world today
because Russia got the bomb than we would've lived in had they not gotten the bomb right. The entire 20th century, second half of the 20th century would've played out
very different had those people not given Russia the bomb. And so the stakes were very high then. The good news today is nobody's sitting here today,
I don't think worrying about like an analogous situation with respect to like, I'm not really worried that Sam Altman's gonna decide
to give, you know, the Chinese, the design for AI, although he did just speak at a Chinese conference,
which is in interesting. But however, I don't think that's what's at play here, but what's at play here are all these other fundamental
issues around what do we believe about this and then what laws and regulations and restrictions that we're gonna put on it.
And that's where I draw like a direct straight line. And anyway, and my reading of the history on nukes is like the people who were doing the full hair shirt public,
this is awful. This is terrible. Actually had like catastrophically bad results from taking those views.
And that's what I'm worried it's gonna happen again. - But is there a case to be made that you really need to wake the public up to the dangers
of nuclear weapons when they were first dropped? Like really like educate them on like, this is extremely dangerous and destructive weapon.
- I think the education kind of happened quick and early, like-- - [Lex] How? - It was pretty obvious. - [Lex] How?
- We dropped one bomb and destroyed an entire city. - Yeah. So 80,000 people dead. - [Marc] Yep. - But.
- [Marc] And look. But-- - I don't like the reporting of that. You can report that in all kinds of ways.
- [Marc] Oh, there wars. - You can do all kinds of slants. Like war is horrible. War is terrible. You can do, you can make it seem like nuclear,
the use of nuclear weapons is just a part of war and all that kind of stuff. Something about the reporting and the discussion
of nuclear weapons resulted in us being terrified in awe of the power of nuclear weapons
and that potentially fed in a positive way towards the game theory of mutual issue destruction.
- Well, so this gets to what actually, let's get to what actually happens. - [Lex] Some of us, me playing devil's advocate here. - Yeah, yeah, sure. Of course. Let's get to what actually happened and then kind
of back into that. So what actually happened, I believe, and again I think this is a reasonable reading of history, is what actually happened was nukes then prevented
World War III and they prevented World War III through the game theory of mutually assured destruction had nukes not existed. Right.
There would've been no reason why the Cold War did not go hot. Right. And then there and then, you know, and the military planners at the time, right,
thought both on both sides thought that there was gonna be World War III on the planes of Europe and they thought there was gonna be like a hundred million people dead. Right?
It was like the most obvious thing in the world to happen. Right? And it's the dog that didn't bark right? Like it may be like the best single net thing that happened
in the entire 20th century is that like that didn't happen. - Yeah. Actually, just on that point, you say a lot of really brilliant things.
It hit me just as you were saying it. I don't know why it hit me for the first time,
but we got two wars in a span of like 20 years.
Like we could have kept getting more and more world wars and more and more ruthless.
It actually, you could have had a US versus Russia war. - You could, by the way you haven't,
there's another hypothetical scenario. The other hypothetical scenario is that Americans got the bomb, the Russians didn't.
Right? And then America's the big dog and then maybe America would've had the capability to actually roll back the iron curtain.
I don't know whether that would've happened, but like it's entirely possible. Right? And the act of these people
who had these moral positions about, 'cause they could forecast, they could model, they could forecast the future of how the technology would get used, made a horrific mistake.
'cause they basically ensured that the iron curtain would continue for 50 years longer than it would've otherwise. Like, and again, like these are counter-factuals,
I don't know that that's what, what would've happened, but like the decision to hand the bomb
over was a big decision made by people who were very full of themselves.
- Yeah. But so me as an America, me as a person that loves America, I also wonder if US was the only ones
with the nuclear weapons. - That was the argument for handing
that was the guys who (indistinct) the guys who handed over the bomb. That was actually their moral argument. - Yeah. I would probably not hand it over to,
I would be careful about the regimes. You hand it over to there, maybe give it to like the British or something,
or like a democratically-elected government. - Well, look, there are people to this day
who think that those bias Soviet spies did the right thing because they created a balance of terror as opposed to the US having just, and by the way, let me--
- Balance of terror. - [Marc] Let's tell the full version story has-- - Such a sexy ring to it. - Okay. So the full version of the story is John Van Norman is a hero of both yours and mind.
The full version of the story is he advocated for a first strike. So when the US had the bomb and Russia did not,
he advocated for, he said, we need to strike them right now. - Strike Russia.
- [Marc] Yes. - Van Norman. - Yes, because he said World War III is inevitable.
He was very hardcore. His theory was World War III is inevitable.
We're definitely gonna have World War III. The only way to stop World War III is we have to take them out right now and we have to take them out right now before they get the bomb.
'Cause this is our last chance. Now again, like-- - Is this an example of philosophers and politics? - I don't know if that's in there or not,
but this is in the standard. - No, but it is meaning is that. - Yeah, this is on the other side. So, most of the case studies, most of the case studies in books like this are
the crazy people on the left. Van Norman is a story arguably of the crazy people on the right.
- Yes. Stick to computing, John. - Well. This is the thing, and this is the general principle. Getting back to our core thing, which is like,
I don't know whether any of these people should be making any of these calls. Because there's nothing in either Van Norman's background
or Oppenheimer's background or any of these people's background that qualifies them as moral authorities. - Yeah. Well this actually brings up the point of, in AI,
who are the good people to reason about the morality of the ethics, the outside of these risks,
outside of like the more complicated stuff that you, you agree on is, you know, this will go into the hands of bad guys
and all the kinds of ways they'll do is interesting and dangerous, is dangerous in interesting
unpredictable ways. And who is the right person? Who are the right kinds of people to make decisions, how to respond to it? Or is the tech people?
- So the history of these fields, this is what he talks about in the book, the history of these fields, is that the competence
and capability and intelligence and training and accomplishments of senior scientists and technologists working on a technology and then being able
to then make moral judgments in the use of that technology. That track record is terrible that track record is like catastrophically bad.
The people-- - Just the linger, the people that develop that technology are usually not going to be the right people.
- Well why would they? So the claim is of course, they're the knowledgeable ones. But the the problem is they've spent their entire life in a lab. Right.
They're not theologians. Well, so what you find, what you find when you read, when you read this, when you look at these histories,
what you find is they generally are very thinly informed on history, on sociology, on theology, on morality, on ethics.
They tend to manufacture their own worldviews from scratch. They tend to be very sort of thin.
They're not remotely the arguments that you would be having if you got like a group of highly qualified theologians or philosophers or, you know.
- Well, let me sort of, as the devil's advocate, takes a simple whiskey say that I agree with that.
But also it seems like the people who are doing kind of the ethics departments and these tech companies go sometimes the other way.
- [Marc] Yes, they're definitely. - Which they're not nuanced on history or theology
or this kind of stuff. It almost becomes a kind of outraged activism towards directions that don't seem to be
grounded in history and humility and nuance. It's again, drenched with arrogance. So--
- [Marc] Definitely. - I'm not sure which is worse. - Oh no, they're both bad. Yeah. So definitely not them either. - So, but I guess.
- Well look, this is a hard. - Yeah, it's a hard problem. - This is a hard problem. This goes back to where we started, which is, okay, who has the truth?
And it's like, well, you know, like how does societies arrive at like truth and how do we figure these things out and like our elected leaders play some role in it.
You know, we all play some role in it. There have to be some set of public intellectuals at some point that bring, you know,
rationality and judgment and humility to it. Those people are few and far between. We should probably prize them very highly.
- Yeah. So celebrate humility in our public leaders. So getting to risk number two,
