What about just the jump around, what about the risk of will AI lead to crippling inequality?
You know, 'cause we're kind of saying everybody's life will become better. Is it possible that the rich get richer here?
- Yeah, so this goes, this actually ironically goes back to Marxism. So 'cause this was the, so the core claim of Marxism, right?
Basically was that the owner, the owners of capital would basically own the means of production. And then over time they would basically accumulate
all the wealth the workers would be paying in, you know, and getting nothing in return 'cause they wouldn't be needed anymore, right?
Marx was very worried about mech what he called mechanization or what later became known as automation. And that, you know,
the workers would be immiserated and the the capitalists would end up with all. And so this was one of the core principles of Marxism.
Of course it turned out to be wrong about every previous wave of technology. The reason it, it turned out to be wrong about every previous wave of technology is
that the way that the self-interested owner of the machines makes the most money is by providing the production capability in the form
of products and services to the most people, the most customers as possible, right? The the largest,
and this is one of those funny things where every CEO knows this intuitively, and yet it's like hard to explain from the outside the way you make the most money in any business is
by selling to the largest market you can possibly get to. The largest market you can possibly get to is everybody on the planet.
And so every large company does is everything that it can to drive down prices, to be able to get volumes up, to be able to get to everybody on the planet.
And that happened with everything from electricity, it happened with telephones, it happened with radio, it happened with automobiles, it happened with smartphones,
it happened with PCs, it happened with the internet, it happened with mobile broadband.
It's happened by the way, with Coca-Cola. It's happened with like every, you know, basically every industrially produced, you know,
good or service people, you wanna drive it to the largest possible market. And then as proof of that, it's already happened, right?
Which is the early adopters of like ChatGPT and Bing are not like, you know, Exxon and Boeing.
They're, you know, your uncle and your nephew, right? It's just like free. It's either freely available online or it's available
for 20 bucks a month or something. But the, you know, these things went this technology went mass market immediately.
And so look, the owners of the means of production, the whoever does this now mentioned these trillion dollar questions.
There are people who are gonna get really rich doing this, producing these things, but they're gonna get really rich by taking this technology to the broadest possible market.
- So yes, they'll get rich, but they'll get rich having a huge positive impact on. - Yeah, making the technology available to everybody. Right.
And again, smartphone, same thing. So there's this amazing kind of twist in business history, which is you cannot spend $10,000 on a smartphone, right?
You can't spend a hundred thousand dollars, you can't spend a million, like I would buy the million dollars smartphone. Like I'm signed up for it. Like if it's like,
suppose a million dollar smartphone was like much better than the thousand dollar smartphone. Like I'm there to buy it, it doesn't exist. Why doesn't it exist?
Apple makes so much more money driving the price further down from a thousand dollars than they would trying to harvest, right?
And so it's just this repeating pattern you see over and over again where and what's great about it is you,
you do not need to rely on anybody's enlightened right? Generosity to do this. You just need to rely on capitalist self-interest.
- What about AI taking our jobs? - Yeah. So very very similar thing here. There's sort of a, there's a core fallacy which again was
very common in Marxism, which is what's called the lump of labor fallacy. And this is sort of the fallacy that there is
only a fixed amount of work to be done in the world. And it's all being done today by people and then if machines do it,
there's no other work to be done by people. And that's just a completely backwards view on how the economy develops and grows.
Because what happens is not in fact that what happens is the introduction of technology into production process
causes prices to fall. As prices fall, consumers have more spending power. As consumers have more spending power,
they create new demand. That new demand then causes capital and labor to form into new enterprises to satisfy nuance and needs.
And the result is more jobs at higher wages. - So nuance and needs, the worries that the creation
of nuance and needs at a rapid rate will mean there's a lot of turnover in jobs.
So people will lose jobs. Just the actual experience of losing a job and having to learn new things and new skills is painful
for the individuals. - Well, two things. One is the new jobs are often much better. So this actually came up that there was this panic
about a decade ago and all the truck drivers are gonna lose their jobs, right? And number one, that didn't happen 'cause we haven't figured out a way to actually finish that yet.
But the other thing was like, look, truck driver, like I grew up in a town that was basically consisted of a truck stop, right? And I like knew a lot of truck drivers
and like truck drivers live a decade shorter than everybody else. Like, it's actually like a very dangerous,
like, they get, like literally they have like higher rates of skin cancer and on the left side of their, on the left side of their body
from being in the sun all the time. The vibration of being in the truck is actually very damaging to your physiology.
- And there's actually perhaps partially because of that reason there's a shortage of people who wanna be truck drivers.
- Yeah. Like, it's not like the question always you wanna ask somebody like that is, do you want, you know, do you want your kid to be doing this job?
And like most of them will tell you no. Like, I want my kid to be sitting in a cubicle somewhere like where they don't have this, like, where they don't die 10 years earlier.
And so, the new jobs, number one, the new jobs are often better, but you don't get the new jobs until you go through the change.
And then to your point, the training thing, you know, is always the issue is can people adapt? And again, here you need to imagine living in a world
in which everybody has the AI assistant capability, right? To be able to pick up new skills much more quickly
and be able to have some, you know, be able to have a machine to work with to augment their skills. - It's still gonna be painful, but that's the process of life.
- It's painful for some people. I mean there's no, like, there's no question it's painful for some people and they're, you know, they're yes, it's not, again,
I'm not a utopian on this and it's not like, it's positive for everybody in the moment, but it has been overwhelmingly positive for 300 years.
I mean, look, the concern here, the concern, this concern has played out for literally centuries and you know,
this is the sort of Luddite, you know, the story of the Luddites that you may remember, there was a panic in the two thousands around outsourcing
was gonna take all the jobs. There was a panic in the 2010s that robots were gonna take all the jobs.
In 2019 before COVID we had more jobs at higher wages both in the country and in the world
than at any point in human history. And so the overwhelming evidence is that the net gain here is like, just like wildly positive.
And most people like overwhelmingly come out the other side being huge beneficiaries of this.
