How to be successful in their career? How to be successful in their life? - Yeah. So the tools that are available today, I mean,
are just like, I sometimes, you know, bore, I sometimes bore, you know, kids by describing like what it was like to go look up
a book, you know, to try to like discover a fact in, you know, in the old days, the 1970s, 1980s, to go to the library and the card catalog
and the whole thing. You go through all that work and then the book is checked out and you have to wait two weeks and like to be in a world,
not only where you can get the answer to any question, but also the world now, you know, the AI world where you've got like the assistant
that will help you do anything, help you teach, learn anything, like your ability both to learn and also to produce is just like, I don't know,
a million fold beyond what it used to be. I have a blog post I've been wanting to write, which I call where are the hyper-productive people?
Like-- - [Lex] That's a good question, right? - Like with these tools, like there should be authors that are writing like hundreds
or thousands of like, outstanding books. - Well, with the authors there's a consumption question too, but yeah. Well, maybe not, maybe not.
You're right. But, so the tools are much more powerful. Getting much more powerful. - Artists, musicians. Right.
Why aren't musicians producing a thousand times the number of songs, right? Like what, like the tools are spectacular.
- So, what's the explanation? And by way of advice, like,
is motivation starting to be turned down a little bit? Or what? - I think it might be distraction.
- [Lex] Distraction. - It's so easy to just sit and consume that I think people get distracted from production. But if you wanted to, you know,
as a young person, if you wanted to really stand out, you could get on a, like a hyper productivity curve very early on.
There's a great, you know, this story, there's a great story in Roman history of plenty of the elder who was this legendary statesman,
died in the Vesuvius eruption trying to rescue his friends. But he was famous both for being basically being a polymath, but also being an author.
And he wrote apparently like hundreds of books, most of us had been lost. But he like wrote all these encyclopedias and he literally
like would be reading and writing all day long no matter what else was going on. And so he would like travel with like four slaves.
And two of them were responsible for reading to him, and two of them were responsible for taking dictation. And so like, he'd be going cross country and like,
literally he would be writing books like all the time. And apparently they were spectacular. There's only a few that have survived,
but apparently they were amazing. - There's a lot of value to being somebody who finds focus in this life. - Yeah. Like and there are examples, like there are,
you know, there's this guy, judge, what's his name? Posner, who wrote like 40 books and was also a great federal judge.
You know, there's our friend Balaji, I think is like this, he's one of these, you know, where his output is just prodigious.
And so it's like, yeah, I mean, with these tools, why not? And I kind of think we're at this interesting kind of freeze frame moment where like this,
these tools are now in everybody's hands and everybody's just kind of staring at them trying to figure out what to do. The new tools. - We have discovered fire.
- [Marc] Yeah. - And trying to figure out how to use it to cook. - [Marc] Yeah. Right. - You told Tim Ferriss that the perfect day is caffeine
