for 10 hours and alcohol for four hours. You didn't think I'd be mentioning this, did you?
It balances everything out perfectly as you said. So, perfect. So let me ask,
what's the secret to balance and maybe to happiness in life? - I don't believe in balance,
so I'm the wrong person to ask that. - Can you elaborate why you don't believe in balance? - I mean, I maybe it's just, and I look, I think people,
I think people are wired differently. So, I think it's hard to generalize this kind of thing, but I am much happier and more satisfied
when I'm fully committed to something. So I'm very much in favor of all in of imbalance. - Imbalance. And that applies to work,
to life, to everything. - Yeah. No, no. I happen to have whatever twist of personality traits lead
that in non-destructive dimensions in including the fact that I've actually, I now no longer do the ten-four plan. I stopped drinking.
I do the caffeine, but not the alcohol. So there's something in my personality where I whatever mal-adaption I have is inclining me
towards productive things, not unproductive things. - So you're one of the wealthiest people in the world.
What's the relationship between wealth and happiness? Money and happiness.
- So I think happiness, I don't think happiness is the thing.
- To strive for. - I think satisfaction is the thing. - That just sounds like happiness, but turned down a bit.
- No deeper. So happiness is, you know, a walk in the woods at sunset, an ice cream cone, a kiss,
the first ice cream cone is great. The thousandth ice cream cone, not so much.
At some point the walks in the woods get boring. - What's the distinction between happiness and satisfaction?
- I think satisfaction is a deeper thing, which is like having found a purpose and fulfilling it, being useful.
- So just something that permeates all your days, just this general contentment of being useful.
- That I'm fully satisfying my faculties, that I'm fully delivering, right? On the gifts that I've been given, that I'm, you know,
net making the world better, that I'm contributing to the people around me, right. And that I can look back and say, wow, that was hard,
but it was worth it. Think generally, it seems to lead people in a better state than pursuit of pleasure, pursuit of quote unquote happiness.
- Does money have anything to do with that? - I think the founders and the founding fathers in the US threw this off kilter when they used the phrase pursuit
of happiness. I think they should have said. - [Lex] Pursuit of satisfaction. - They said, pursuit of satisfaction. We might live in a better world today.
- Well, they, you know, they could have elaborated on a lot of things right in the box. - [Marc] They could have tweaked the second amendment.
- I think they were smarter than they realized. They said, you know we're gonna make it ambiguous and let these humans figure out the rest,
these tribal cult-like humans figure out the rest.
But money empowers that. - So I think, and I think there, I mean, look, I think Elon is, I don't think I'm even a great example,
but I think Elon would be the great example of this, which is like, you know, look, he's a guy who from every, every day of his life, from the day he started making money at all,
he just plows into the next thing. And so I think, I think money is definitely an enabler for satisfaction.
Way money applied to happiness leads people down very dark paths. Very destructive avenues.
Money applied to satisfaction, I think could be, is a real tool. I always, by the way, I was like, you know,
Elon is the case study for behavior. But the other thing that I always really made me think is Larry Page was asked one time
what his approach to philanthropy was. And he said, oh, I'm just, my philanthropic plan is just give all the money to Elon. (both laugh)
- Well, let me actually ask you about Elon. You've interacted with quite
a lot of successful engineers and business people. What do you think is special about Elon?
We talked about Steve Jobs. What do you think is special about him as a leader?
As an innovator? - Yeah. So the core of it is he's back to the future. So he is doing the most leading-edge things in the world,
but with a really deeply old-school approach. And so to find comparisons to Elon, you need to go to like Henry Ford and Thomas Watson
and Howard Hughes and Andrew Carnegie, right. Leland Stanford, John Rockefeller, right.
You need to go to what were called the bourgeois capitalists, like the hardcore business owner operators
who basically built, you know, basically built industrialized society, Vanderbilt.
And it's a level of hands-on commitment and depth in the business,
coupled with an absolute priority towards truth and towards,
how to put it, science and technology town to first principles that is just like absolute,
is just like unbelievably absolute. He really is ideal that he's only ever talking to engineers. Like he does not tolerate.
He has less tolerance than anybody I've ever met. He wants ground truth on every single topic.
And he runs his businesses directly day-to-day, devoted to getting to ground truth in every single topic.
- So you think it was a good decision for him to buy Twitter?
- I have developed a view in life to not second guess Elon Musk, I know this is gonna sound great, crazy and unfounded, but.
- Well, I mean, he's got a quite a track record. - I mean, look, the car was a crazy, I mean, the car was,
I mean, look. - He's done a lot of things that seem crazy. - Starting a new car company in the United States of America. The last time somebody really tried to do that was
the 1950s and it was called Tucker Automotive. And it was such a disaster. They made a movie about what a disaster it was,
and then rockets like, who does that? Like, there's obviously no way to start a new rocket company.
Like those days are over. And then to do those at the same time. So after he pulled those two off, like, okay, fine.
Like, this is one of my areas of like, whatever opinions I had about that, that is just like, okay, clearly are not relevant.
Like this is you just, you at some point you just like bet on the person. - And in general, I wish more people would lean on celebrating and supporting
versus deriding and destroying. - Oh yeah. I mean, look, he drives resentment. Like it's a resentment.
Like he is a magnet for resentment. Like his critics are the most miserable, like,
resentful people in the world. Like it's almost a perfect match of like the most idealized, you know, technologist, you know,
of the century coupled with like, just his critics are just bitter as can be. And I mean, it's sort of very darkly comic to watch.
- Well, he fuels the fire of that by being on Twitter at times.
And which is fascinating to watch the drama of human civilization, given our cult roots just fully on fire.
- [Marc] He's running a cult. - You could say that. - [Marc] Very successfully. - So now that our cults have gone and we searched
