for meaning, what do you think is the meaning of this whole thing? What's the meaning of life Marc Andreessen? - I don't know the answer to that. I think the meaning
of the closest I get to it is what I said about satisfaction.
So it's basically like, okay, we were given what we have, like we should basically do our best. - What's the role of love in that mix?
- I mean, like, what's the point of life if you're without love, like, yeah. - So love is a big part of that satisfaction.
- Yeah. And look like taking care of people is like a wonderful thing. Like it, you know, mentality, you know, there are pathological forms of taking care of people,
but there's also a very fundamental, you know, kind of aspect of taking care of people. Like, for example, I happen to be somebody who believes that capitalism
and taking care of people are actually, they're actually the same thing. Somebody once said, capitalism is how you take care of people you don't know.
Right, right. And so like, yeah, I think it's like deeply woven into the whole thing, you know, there's a long conversation
to be had about that, but yeah. - Yeah. Creating products that are used by millions of people and bring them joy
in smaller, big ways. And then capitalism kind of enables that, encourages that.
- David Friedman says, there's only three ways to get somebody to do something for somebody else. Love, money and force.
And love and money are better.
- [Lex] Yeah. Of course. That's a good ordering. I think. - We should bet on those. - Try love first. If that doesn't work, then money.
- [Marc] Yes. - And then force. Well, don't even try that one. Marc, you're an incredible person. I've been a huge fan.
I'm glad to finally got a chance to talk. I'm a fan of everything you do, everything you do, including on Twitter.
It's a huge honor to meet you, to talk with you. Thanks again for doing this. - Awesome. Thank you, Lex.
- Thanks for listening to this conversation with Marc Andreessen. To support this podcast, please check out our sponsors in the description.
And now let me leave you with some words from Marc Andreessen himself. "The world is a very malleable place.
If you know what you want and you go for it, with maximum energy and drive and passion,
the world will often reconfigure itself around you much more quickly and easily than you would think."
Thank you for listening and hope to see you next time.
