the page rank inventor, which has become the new tech giant.
I don't know, I would love to hear your kind of opinion if Google, Meta and Microsoft are as gigantic companies able
to pivot so hard to create new products. Like some of it is just even hiring people or having
a corporate structure that allows for the crazy young kids to come in and just create something totally new.
Do you think it's possible or do you think it'll come from a startup? - Yeah, it is this always big question, which is, you get this feeling, I hear about this a lot from CEOs, founder CEOs
where it's like, wow, we have 50,000 people, it's now harder to do new things than it was when we had 50 people.
- [Lex] Yeah. - Like, what has happened? So that's a recurring phenomenon. By the way, that's one of the reasons why there's always startups
and why there's venture capital. That's like a timeless kind of thing. So that's one observation.
On page rank, we can talk about that. But on page rank, specifically on page rank, there actually is a page.
So there is a page rank already in the field and it's the transformer, right? So the big breakthrough was the transformer. And the transformer was invented in 2017 at Google.
And this is actually like really an interesting question 'cause it's like, okay, the transformers like why does open AI even exist?
Like the Transformers invested at Google. Why didn't Google? I asked a guy I know who was senior at Google brain kind of when this was happening.
And I said, if Google had just gone flat out to the wall and just said, look, we're gonna launch, we're gonna launch the equivalent of GPT4
as fast as we can. I said, when could we have had it? And he said, 2019. They could have just done a two year sprint
with the Transformer and because they already had the compute at scale. They already had all the training data, they could have just done it.
There's a variety of reasons they didn't do it. This is like a classic big company thing. IBM invented the relational database in the 1970s,
let it sit on the shelf as a paper. Larry Ellison picked it up and built Oracle. Xerox Park invented the interactive computer.
They let it sit on the shelf. Steve Jobs came and turned it into the Macintosh, right? And so there is this pattern. Now having said that,
sitting here today, like Google's in the game, right? So Google, you know, they maybe they let like a four year gap there go there
that they maybe shouldn't have, but like they're in the game and so now they've got, you know, now they're committed. They've done this merger, they're bringing in demos,
they've got this merger with DeepMind. You know, they're piling in resources. There are rumors that they're, you know, building up an incredible, you know, super LLM you know,
way beyond what we even have today. And they've got, you know, unlimited resources and a huge, you know, they've been challenged their honor.
- Yeah. I had a chance to hang out with (indistinct) a couple days ago and we took this walk
and there's this giant new building where there's going to be a lot of AI work being done
and it's kind of this ominous feeling of like
the fight is on. - [Marc] Yeah. - Like there's this beautiful Silicon Valley nature,
like birds are chirping and this giant building and it's like the beast has been awakened.
- [Marc] Yeah. - And then like all the big companies are waking up to this. They have the compute, but also the little guys have,
it feels like they have all the tools to create the killer product that, and then there's also tools to scale
if you have a good idea, if you have the page rank idea. So there's several things that it's page rank,
there's page rank, the algorithm and the idea and there's like the implementation of it. And I feel like killer product is not just the idea,
like the transform, it's the implementation something really compelling about it. Like you just can't look away something like
the algorithm behind TikTok versus TikTok itself, like the actual experience of TikTok that just,
you can't look away. It feels like somebody's gonna come up with that. And it could be Google,
but it feels like it's just easier and faster to do for a startup. - Yeah. So, the startup,
the huge advantage that startups have is they just, there's no sacred cows. There's no historical legacy to protect,
there's no need to reconcile your new plan with the existing strategy. There's no communication overhead. There's no, you know, big companies are big companies.
They've got pre-meetings planning for the meeting, then they have the post meeting, the recap, then they have the presentation of the board,
then they have the next rounds of meetings. And that's the-- - [Lex] Lots of meetings. - That's the elapsed time when the startup launches its product. Right?
So, there's a timeless, right? - [Lex] Yeah. - So there's a timeless thing there now. What the startups don't have is everything else, right?
So startups, they don't have a brand, they don't have customer relationships. They've gotten no distribution, they've got no, you know, scale. I mean sitting here today, they can't even get GPUs.
Right. Like there's like a GPU shortage. Startups are literally stalled out right now 'cause they can't get chips, which is like super weird.
- [Lex] Yeah. They got the cloud. - Yeah. But the clouds run out of chips. Right. And then to the extent the clouds have chips,
they allocate them to the big customers. Not the small customers. Right. And so the small companies lack everything other
than the ability to just do something new. Right. And this is the timeless race and battle.
And this is kinda the point I tried to make in the essay, which is like, both sides of this are good. Like, it's really good to have like highly-scaled tech companies
that can do things that are like at staggering levels of sophistication. It's really good to have startups that can launch brand-new ideas.
They ought to be able to both do that and compete. They, neither one ought to be subsidized or protected from the others.
Like that's, to me, that's just like very clearly the idealized world. It is the world we've been in for AI up until now.
And then of course there are people trying to shut that down. But my hope is that, you know, the best outcome clearly will be if that continues.
- We'll talk about that a little bit, but I'd love to linger on some of the ways this is going to change the internet.
