What about that view of the world, that dogmatic pursuit of perfection and how he saw perfection in design?
- Yeah, so I guess I'd say like, look, he was a deep believer, I think in a very deep, the way I interpret it,
I don't know if you ever really described it like this, but the way I interpret it's like this thing and it's actually a thing in philosophy.
It's like aesthetics are not just appearances. Aesthetics go all the way to like deep underlying meaning, right?
It's like I'm not a physicist. One of the things I've heard physicists say is one of the things you start to get a sense of when a theory might be correct is
when it's beautiful, right? Like, you know, there, right? And so, there's something, and you feel the same thing by the way
in like human psychology, right? You know, when you're experiencing awe, right? You know, there's like a simplicity to it.
When you're having an honest interaction with somebody, there's an aesthetic, I would say calm comes over you 'cause you're actually being fully honest
and trying to hide yourself, right? So it's like this very deep sense of aesthetics. - And he would trust that judgment that he had deep down.
Like yeah, even if the engineering teams are saying this is too difficult.
Even if whatever the finance folks are saying, this is ridiculous. The supply chain, all that kind of stuff just makes
this impossible. We can't do this kind of material. This has never been done before and so on and so forth. He just sticks by it.
- Well, I mean, who makes a phone out of aluminum, right? Like, hadn't nobody else would've done that. And now of course if your phone is made
out of aluminum white, you know, how crude, what a kind of caveman would you have to be to have a phone that's made outta plastic? Like, right.
So like, so it's just this very right. And, you know, look, there's a thousand different ways to look at this,
but one of the things is just like, look, these things are central to your life. Like, you're with your phone more than you're with anything else.
Like, it's gonna be in your hand. I mean, you know this, he thought very deeply about what it meant for something to be in your hand all day long.
But for example, here's an interesting design thing. Like, he never wanted, my understanding is he never wanted an iPhone to have
a screen larger than you could reach with your thumb one handed. And so he was actually opposed to the idea
of making the phones larger. And I don't know if you have this experience today, but let's say there are certain moments in your day when you might be like,
only have one hand available and you might wanna be on your phone. And you're trying to like, send a text
and your thumb can't reach the send button. - Yeah. I mean there's pros and cons, right? And then there's like folding phones,
which I would love to know what he thought thinks about them. But I mean, is there something you could also just linger on?
'cause he's one of the interesting figures in the history of technology. What makes him as successful as he was?
What makes him as interesting as he was? What made him so productive and important
in the development of technology? - He had an integrated worldview.
So the properly designed device that had the correct functionality, that had the deepest understanding of the user,
that was the most beautiful, right? Like, it had to be all of those things, right?
He basically would drive to as close to perfect as you could possibly get. Right? And you know, I suspect that he never quite, you know,
thought he ever got there. 'cause most great creators, you know, are generally dissatisfied. You know, you read accounts later on and all they can,
all they can see are the flaws in their creation. But like he got as close to perfect each step of the way as he could possibly get with the constraints
of the technology of his time. And then, you know, look, he was, you know, sort of famous in the Apple model.
It's like, look, they will, you know, this headset that they just came out with, like, you know, it's like a decade long project, right?
It's like, and they're just gonna sit there and tune and tune and polish and polish and tune and polish and tune and polish until it is as perfect
as anybody could possibly make anything. - Yeah. - And then this goes to the way that people describe working with him was, which is,
you know, there was a terrifying aspect of working with him, which is, you know, he was, you know, he was very tough. But there was this thing that everybody I've ever talked
to worked for him, says that they all say the following, which is we did the best work
of our lives when we worked for him because he set the bar incredibly high. And then he supported us with everything that he could
to let us actually do work of that quality. So a lot of people who were at Apple spend the rest of their lives trying to find another experience
where they feel like they're able to hit that quality bar again. - Even if it in retrospect or during it felt like suffering.
- Yeah, exactly. - What does that teach you about the human condition? Huh?
- So look, so say exactly. So the Silicon Valley, I mean, look, he's not, you know, George Patton you know in the Army.
Like, you know, there are many examples in other fields, you know, that are like this specifically in tech.
It's actually, I find it very interesting. There's the Apple way, which is polish, polish, polish, and don't ship until it's as perfect as you can make it.
And then there's the sort of the other approach, which is the sort of incremental hacker mentality, which basically says, ship early and often and iterate.
And one of the things I find really interesting is I'm now 30 years into this, like, they're very successful companies on both sides
of that approach, right? Like, that is a fundamental difference, right?
In how to operate and how to build and how to create that. You have world class companies operating in both ways.
And I don't think the question of like, which is the superior model is anywhere close to being answered.
Like, and my suspicion is the answer is do both. The answer is you actually want both. They lead to different outcomes.
Software tends to do better with the iterative approach. Hardware tends to do better with the, you know,
sort of wait and make it perfect approach. But again, you can find examples in both directions.
- So the jury's still out on that one. So back to Mosaic. So, what it was text based Tim Burns Lee?
- Well, there was the web, which was text based, but there were no, I mean there was like three websites. There was like no content, there were no users.
Like, it wasn't like a catalytic, it hadn't, and by the way, it was all because it was all text. There were no documents,
there were no images, there were no videos, there were no, right. So, and then if, if in the beginning, if you had to be on a next cube, right?
You need to had a next cube both to publish and to consume. - So, there was 6,000 bucks you said. - There were limitations.
Yeah. $6,000 PC. They did not sell very many. But then there was also, there was also FTP and there was Use Nets, right?
And there was, you know, a dozen other basically there's waste, which was an early search thing. There was Gopher, which was an early menu based
information retrieval system. There were like a dozen different sort of scattered ways that people would get to information on the internet.
And so the Mosaic idea was basically bring those all together, make the whole thing graphical, make it easy to use,
make it basically bulletproof so that anybody can do it. And then again, just on the luck side, it so happened that this was
right at the moment when graphics, when the GUI sort of actually took off and we're now also used to the GUI that we think it's been around forever.
But it didn't real, you know, the Macintosh brought it out in 85, but they actually didn't sell very many Macs
in the eighties. It was not that successful of a product. It really was. You needed Windows 3.0 on PCs and that hit in about 92.
And so, and we did most in 92, 93. So that sort of, it was like right at the moment when you could imagine
actually having a graphical user interface to right at all, much less one to the internet.
- How old did Windows 3 sell? So was that the really big. - [Marc] That was the big bang.
- The big operating graphical operating system? - Well this is the classic, okay. This Microsoft was operating on the other,
so Steve the Apple was running on the Polish until it's perfect. Microsoft famously ran on the other model,
which is ship and iterate. And so in the old line in those days was Microsoft Right's version three of every Microsoft product. That's the good one, right?
And so there there are, you can find online Windows 1, Windows 2. Nobody used them. Actually the original Windows,
in the original Microsoft Windows, the windows were non overlapping. And so you had these very small,
very low resolution screens and then you had literally-- - [Lex] Windows. - It just didn't work. It wasn't ready yet. Well.
- And Windows 95 I think was a pretty big leap also. - That was a big leap too. So that was like bang, bang.
And then of course Steve, and then when, you know, in the fullness of time Steve came back, then the Mac started, took off again.
That was the third bang. And then the iPhone was the fourth bang. - Such exciting time. - And then we were off, off to the races because.
- Nobody could have known what would be created from that. - Well, Windows 3.1 or 3.0,
Windows 3.0 to the iPhone was only 15 years. Right. Like that ramp was in retrospect.
At the time it felt like it took forever. But that in histor in historical terms, like that was a very fast ramp from even a graphical computer
at all on your desk to the iPhone. That was 15 years. - So, did you have a sense of what the internet will be
as you're looking through the window of Mosaic? Like, what you, like there's just a few web pages for now.
- So the thing I had early on was I was keeping at the time what there's disputes over what was the first blog,
but I had one of them that at least is a possible, at least a rudder up in the competition.
And it was what was called the What's new page. And it was literally, it was a hardwired in distribution unfair advantage.
I wired, put it right in the browser, I put it in the browser and then I put my resume in the browser, which also was--
- [Lex] Hilarious. - But I was keeping
not many people get to get to do that. - No, good call.
And early days. It's so interesting. - I'm looking for my, about about, oh, Marc is looking for a job.
- [Lex] Yeah, yeah, exactly. - So the West New page, I would literally get up every morning
and I would, or every afternoon and I would basically, if you wanted to launch a website,
you would email me and I would list it on the most new page. And that was how people discovered the new websites as they were coming out.
And I remember 'cause it was like one, it literally went from, it was like one every couple days to like one every day
to like two every day. - And then so you're doing, so that blog was kind of doing the directory thing.
So like, what was the homepage? - So the homepage was just basically trying to explain even what this thing is that you're looking at. Right.
Basically the basic instructions. But then there was a button, there was a button that said what's new. And what most people did was they went to,
for obvious reasons went to what's new. - [Lex] Yeah. - But like it was so mind blowing at that point. This the basic idea and it was, this was like, you know,
this was the basic idea of the internet, but people could see it for the first time. The basic idea was, look, you know, some, you know, it's like literally it's like an Indian restaurant in like
Bristol England has like put their menu on the web. And people were like, wow. - [Lex] Whoa.
- Because like that's the first restaurant menu on the web. - [Lex] Yeah. - And I don't have to be in Bristol and I don't know if I'm ever gonna go to Bristol.
And I don't even like Indian food and like. Wow. Right. And it was like that the first web, the first streaming video thing was
it was in another England, some Oxford or something. Some guy put his coffee pot up as the first streaming video
thing and he put it on the web 'cause he literally, it was the coffee pot down the hall. And he wanted to see when he needed to go refill it.
But there were, you know, there was a point when there were thousands of people like watching that coffee pot 'cause it was the first thing you could watch.
- Well, but isn't were you able to kind of infer, you know, if that Indian restaurant could go online.
Then you're like they all will. - [Marc] Yeah, exactly. - So you felt that? - [Marc] Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- Okay. - Now, you know, look, it's still a stretch, right? It's still a stretch 'cause it's just like, okay, is it, you know, you're still in this zone, which is like, okay, is this a nerd thing?
Is this a real person thing? By the way, you know, there was a wall of skepticism from the media. Like, they just, like, everybody was just like, yeah,
this is the crazy, this is just like dumb. This is not, you know, this is not for regular people at that time. And so you, you had to think through that and then look,
it was still hard to get on the internet at that point, right? So you could get kind of this weird bastardized version
if you were on AOL, which wasn't really real. Or you had to go like, learn what an ISP was.
You know, in those days, PCs actually didn't have TCPIP drivers come reinstalled. So you had to learn what a TCPIP driver was.
You had to buy a modem, you had to install driver software. I have a comedy routine. I do.
So it's like 20 minutes long describing all the steps required to actually get on the internet at this point. And so you had to look through these practical.
Well, and then speed performance 14-4 modems, right? Like it was like watching, you know, glue dry, like,
and so you had to, there were basically a sequence of bets that we made where you basically needed to look through that current state of affairs and say,
actually there's gonna be so much demand for once people figure this out, there's gonna be so much demand for it that all of these practical problems are gonna get fixed.
- Some people say that the anticipation makes the destination that much more exciting.
- Do you remember progressive JPEGs? - Yeah. Do I, do I? - For kids in the audience, right?
- [Lex] For kids in the audience. - You used to have to watch an image load like a line at the time. But it turns out there was this thing with JPEGs
where you could load basically every fourth, you could load like every fourth line and then you could sweep back through again.
And so you could like render a fuzzy version of image up front. And then it would like resolve into the detailed one. And that was like a big UI breakthrough
'cause it gave you something to watch. - Yeah. And you know, there's applications in various domains for that.
- Well it was a big fight. There was a big fight early on about whether there should be images in the web. And. - For that reason for like sexualization or--
- Not explicitly that that did come up. But it wasn't even that, it was more just like all the serious in the argument went, the purists basically said all the serious information
in the world is text. If you introduce images, you basically are gonna bring in all the trivial stuff. You're gonna bring in magazines and you know,
all this crazy just, you know, stuff that, you know, people, you know, it's gonna, it is gonna distract from that. It's gonna go take it away from being serious to being frivolous.
- Well, was there any (indistinct) type arguments about the internet destroying all of human civilization or destroying some
fundamental fabric of human civilization? - So it was, those days it was all around crime and terrorism.
So those arguments happened, you know, but there was no sense yet of the internet having like, an effect on politics because that was way too, too far off.
But there was an enormous panic at the time around cybercrime. There was like enormous panic that like your credit card
number would get stolen and you'd use life savings would be drained. And then, you know, criminals were gonna, there was, oh, when we started, one of the things we did,
one of the Netscape browser was the first widely used piece of consumer software that had strong encryption built in,
it made it available to ordinary people. And at that time, strong encryption was actually illegal to export
outta the US so we could feel that product in the US, we could not export it 'cause it was classified as munition.
So the Netscape browser was on a restricted list along with the tomahawk missile as being something that could not be exported.
So we had to make a second version with deliberately weak encryption to sell overseas with a big logo on the box saying, do not trust this.
Which it turns out, makes it hard to sell software when it's got a big logo that says don't trust it.
And then we had to spend five years fighting the US government to get them to basically stop trying to do this regulation.
But because the fear was terrorists are gonna use encryption, right? To like plot, you know, all these things.
And then, you know, we responded with, well actually we need encryption to be able to secure systems so that the terrorists
and the criminals can't get into them. So that anyway, that was the 1990s fight. - So can you say something about some of the details
